we're here at tweed love in Peebles
with Scot nickel from Ibis bikes and
he's going to talk us a little bit
through version 2 the Ripley the
original ones been out a few years had
quite a long development process but
what were your thoughts and your the
design process that's led to this new
version to the the original Ripley was
one of our favorite bikes that we ever
built and everybody at Ibis just
absolutely loves it but we decided it
was time for for a few changes
we kept the geometry identical to the
original Ripley because we love the way
the bike rides but when the original
Ripley was conceived of it was closer to
kind of a cross country style bike but
29er ZAR so capable and so fun that
people were using them for a lot bigger
you know more trail bike type of riding
than we anticipated they would so so we
built a new Ripley
the v2 Ripley we added a whole bunch of
tire clearance it's now got tire
clearance for the pretty beefy 2.35 in
the back we've also put a threaded BB in
it instead of the press-fit baby we've
changed the from the original style
Ripley cable routing to the new style
that we first introduced in the tranny
29 so that's an internal routing via of
very versatile port system the other
thing that we did is with the popularity
of longer droppers now 150 droppers
we've lowered the seat mass on on the
bikes by half an inch another thing that
we found is that people were really
riding aggressively especially as of
late because of the new 941 rims that we
offer on these so these are 41
millimeter wide rims outside 35 inner
and they are just a game changer they
completely change the profile of the
tire and they make it possible in many
cases to run a lot lower pressure
there's a lot of movement in wheel size
at the moment with we'll talk about 650
Plus mm-hmm and obviously the sort of
being able to run those wheels in a
two-niner frame was did that was that
part of your kind of thought process for
this is you did you consider like making
this bike that you can run both in we
were tracking
pretty pretty heavily on the the be plus
movement these days
this bike was already molded when that
really started to you know that when we
restore to see some movement on the bead
blood side so there's not clearance
unfortunately it's really difficult to
change the geometry drown around here
around the clevis and that's the widest
point of a of a you know 27 5 plus tire
is right there where it would be the
most difficult for us to change so this
bike does you know unfortunately does
not accommodate the B+ wheel the
diameter is the same yeah so it's it's
very tempting you know to to do that and
we've we've been riding the B+ wheels
and we we we think there's a place for
them I don't think most people are going
to want to ride them but I do think that
there's going to be you know initiative
people that are going to then want to go
that way yes so certainly in newer
designs will be you know looking at
accommodating that that wheel size yeah
and the eccentrics and the kinematics is
that exactly the same as the big one
yeah we've kept that the same we love
the way the bike rides or climbs you
know people can't believe how well these
DW links climb and I would say that the
the newest version of the what's
standard on the on the on the bike is
the new Fox evil shock and it's like
really yeah
and it really adds a lot of mid-stroke
control you know a little bit more
platform in the mid stroke and so that
the bike feels even even more bottomless
talk about the front suspension as well
the new 34 platform that they're
introducing for the for the 29er
is the same weight as last year's 32 and
and it's buttery like the 36 is and so
it's it's a really big big improvement
over last year's 32 so similar weight to
the 32 buttery but a lot stiffer you
know and we're big fans NBR of the short
travel to nine we think there's a lot of
great bikes out there they're super
capable and you know and they really
suit a lot of the riding that we do but
in terms of the
wider perspective there maybe not the
most popular style of bike around so how
does the Ripley fit into the ibis range
in terms of popularity well internally
it I have a sir Ripley is just the
universally loved bike it's the wind so
our go-to bike inside and the if you
look at the the sales figures the hd3
the mojo hd3 which we introduced last
november's is really the one that the
people are buying the most of and and I
think a lot of people discount how great
29 errs are because there was a lot of
not very good 29 errs back in the day
and that that's a pervasive sort of
memory that people have and they they
are blinded to what you know the miracle
data you know that this wheel size
really is and especially again with
these 941 the fat rims boy it's such a
game changer it makes the bike so much
more capable and you know you've already
got great traction of the 29 or but then
to pop that out by another you know 20%
plus it's it's it's really really
impressive so you can definitely see a
peach of a 49 long time yeah I sure hope
so I would I was sure would hate to see
it go away I mean it's the bikes are so
great and so often we people come in
wanting to ride the hd3 and we quiz them
about how that you know how they ride
and where they ride and we say well you
know in reality you should probably be
on a Ripley because you know that's
that's really more suitable to the type
of terrain and the style of riding you
do and if we can convince them to get on
the Ripley oftentimes their minds are
changed so yeah I think I think that
that pendulum has the opportunities to
swing back yeah and I think both sizes
are fantastic and should peacefully
coexist again and you know all will be
well in the world sounds good to us well
we can give it a go yeah
you